{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1347\cocoasubrtf570
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww21080\viewh7620\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Title: Learn Something New Today\
\
So, you have a little time on your own, maybe a 15-30 minutes before you go out to meet some friends or whatever. What should you do of these 15-30 minutes? Watch TV? Play video games? Or maybe its a good opportunity to learn one thing or two. In my case, I favour the latter. Here is a list of some of my favourite Youtube channels in this regard. Most of their videos are of 20 minutes or less and are filled of knowledge. Pick one and start learning new stuff!\
\
Science\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 DeepSkyVideos: https://www.youtube.com/user/DeepSkyVideos\
MinutePhysics: https://www.youtube.com/user/minutephysics\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 SciShow: https://www.youtube.com/user/scishow\
SciShow Space: https://www.youtube.com/user/scishowspace\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 Sixty Symbols: https://www.youtube.com/user/sixtysymbols\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 Vsauce: https://www.youtube.com/user/Vsauce\
\
Math\
Numberphile: https://www.youtube.com/user/numberphile\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 Computer science related\
Computerphile: https://www.youtube.com/user/Computerphile\
LinusTechTips: https://www.youtube.com/user/LinusTechTips\
Techquikie: https://www.youtube.com/user/Techquickie/featured\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
A little of everything\
CarshCourse: https://www.youtube.com/user/crashcourse\
\
\
There is a lot more to discover, but I feel that its a good entry point. I hope you find subjects that are of interest to you.\
\
Feel free to share your favourite channels, I would be glad to learn new stuff!\
\
(The more you know meme)}